We would like to ask the community to commit to take the extra effort
to get our software into the state where it is suitable for packaging
in Linux distributions, and if possible, sponsor efforts to make sure
they enter released versions of such distributions.

The value of these distributions isn't just ease of installation and
deployment. In our opinion, this is not even the chief value. The
distribution provides a long-term software stack for a stable
production environment with security support. 

That is, the community around the distribution, whether commercial,
such as Red Hat or based on volunteers, such as Debian, is committed
to monitor appropriate fora where security problems are discussed and
announced, and to follow up on any issues that may occur within the
lifetime of the distribution.

Without this support, those wishing to use a package will have to
monitor the package themselves, or to blindly deploy any new
version. If doing the latter, they loose the stable base for the
production environment, and will also have to deal with any other bugs
that may be introduced. If they choose to monitor the package, in SME
environments, this would usually steal valueable developer resources
from actually develop new services. 

Therefore, for SME's, the service done by Linux distributions are
invaluable. Unfortunately, little Semantic Web software is available
in Linux distributions. There are certain exceptions, and we have
worked with Debian to include many of the PerlRDF community packages. 

Virtuoso and 4store has previously been available, but it seems highly
unlikely that Debian will release with Virtuoso 7, and 4store will
most likely not be included at all. Packagers require that the
software is well maintained, so that backporting any security fixes
can be done with little effort if they should occur within the 3-4
years of lifetime that is typical, and also that it fits in the
ecosystem of the distribution. This require extra effort on the part
of the Semantic Web community.

I think that the lack of a stable production environment is, and
continues to be a serious impediment to the adoption of Semantic Web
technologies. I would therefore encourage the community to enhance
their appreciation of the importance of Linux distributions, and to
pursue the inclusion of our software as a goal.
